<div align="center">
    <h1>
    MSR-Codec
    </h1>
    <p>
    Official PyTorch code for inference of <br>
    <b><em>MSR-Codec: A Low-Bitrate Multi-Stream Residual Codec for High-Fidelity Speech Generation with Information Disentanglement</em></b>
    </p>
    <p>
      Jingyu Li^1, Guangyan Zhang^1, Zhen Ye^2, Yiwen Guo^3<br>
      1^LIGHTSPEED, Hong Kong SAR<br>
      2^The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong SAR<br>
      3^Independent Researcher, Corresponding Author<br>
    </p>
</div>

<!-- ## MSR-Codec 🔥 -->

### Overview

Audio codecs are a critical component of modern speech generation systems. This paper introduces a low-bitrate, multi-scale residual codec that encodes speech into four distinct streams: semantic, timbre, prosody, and residual. This architecture achieves high-fidelity speech reconstruction at competitive low bitrates while demonstrating an inherent ability for information disentanglement. We construct a two-stage language model for text-to-speech (TTS) synthesis using this codec, which, despite its lightweight design and minimal data requirements, achieves a state-of-the-art Word Error Rate (WER) and superior speaker similarity compared to several larger models. Furthermore, the codec’s design proves highly effective for voice conversion, enabling independent manipulation of speaker timbre and prosody.

Our paper on this project has been published! You can read it here: [MRS-Codec](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.13068).

### Key Words

- **Audio Codec**
- **Speech Generation**
- **Low-bitrate**
- **Information Disentanglement**



## Installation
**Clone and Install**

  Here are instructions for installing on Linux. 


- Clone the repo
``` sh
git https://github.com/herbertLJY/MSRCodec.git
cd MSRCodec
```

- Install Conda: please see https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html
- Create Conda env:

``` sh
conda create -n msrcodec -y python=3.10
conda activate msrcodec
```
- Please install the textless first, following https://github.com/facebookresearch/textlesslib/tree/main

- Or 
``` sh
git clone https://github.com/facebookresearch/textlesslib.git
git clone https://github.com/facebookresearch/fairseq.git
export PYTHONPATH=textlesslib/:fairseq/:$PYTHONPATH
```
- Install requried libraries:
``` sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## **Basic Usage**

You can simply run the demo with the following commands:
``` sh
bash infer.sh
```

Alternatively, you can modify the script to generate your speeches：

``` sh
python ignore inference.py \
    --prompt_wav assets/src/121_127105_000009_000000.wav \
    --prompt_text "We say, of course, somebody exclaimed, that they give two turns!" \
    --gen_text "How are you? This is lightspeed studio from tencent." \
    --output_dir out_dir
```

## **Demos**

Here are some demos generated by MSR-Codec using zero-shot voice cloning. For more demos, visit our [demo page](https://herbertljy.github.io/MSRCodec/).
